As you've seen, there are many differences between traditional databases and blockchains.
Neither solution is best for every situation.
It's helpful to understand when you would use a blockchain,
and when it's not actually the best fit.
In this video, we will focus specifically on blockchains.
We'll go over a set of questions you can use to help
decide if the blockchain is the right database solution for your needs.
To get the most out of these questions,
think of an example where you might want to use a blockchain.
Consider a use case or application that you're building,
we'll walk through these series of questions to figure out
if a blockchain is the best solution for your example.
Here are the five questions we need to answer,
saying yes to any of these doesn't necessarily mean a blockchain is a good solution.
But if you can answer yes to all of these questions,
then a blockchain is likely a great solution for your application.
Let's walk through them, one at a time.
First, does the application need a database?
This is a pretty broad place to start,
but it's important to make sure that you've
thought through the use case of your application.
If you don't need to store data in a database,
then you don't need a blockchain,
and you actually don't need any type of database for your application.
So next, will the application required shared write access?
What this is asking,
is if a collection of users will need access to add or write to the database.
Internet and cloud-based applications commonly have shared write access.
Something like Google Sheets was originally meant as a shared access spreadsheet,
where Excel was more of an application to use on your personal computer.
If your application requires this type of shared access database,
you can select yes to this question.
Third, do you need to create trust between users?
With a blockchain, you're putting a system in place to establish trust between users.
This is important whenever they wouldn't be able to establish trust themselves.
In some cases, your users might already
have a unified interests in cooperating with each other.
They might already trust each other to only share accurate information on the database.
It could be an application where trust isn't even a priority.
In any of these cases,
a blockchain might not add much value,
but in a case where trust is a priority and the users can't trust one another,
a blockchain is a great solution.
If this is the case,
you can answer yes to this question.
Next, can your application operate without a trusted third party?
If you're using a blockchain,
you're attempting to replace the trusted third party.
In a case where you'd still be depending on them to operate,
you might consider not using a blockchain.
If you can operate without becoming the trusted third party,
you can answer yes to this question.
Finally, can you operate without having control over permissions of the data?
When using a blockchain,
you won't have the ability to strictly control
permissions over what the users can access,
all data will be shared and owned by the network.
For example, if you wanted to make a social media application,
but also wanted to monitor user behavior and block users that you don't approve of,
then a blockchain might not be the best choice.
If your application can work without having control over permissions,
you can answer yes to this question.
At this point, if you've answered yes to each of these questions,
then a blockchain could be an excellent choice for your application.
If not, try to consider why you've answered no to some of these questions.
Is there a way to tweak the functionality of the idea to
become something that is better suited as a blockchain application?
You don't want to force using a blockchain where it isn't needed.
Traditional databases are more than capable for many situations.
But it is worth thinking through some of these ideas,
to figure out if maybe you'd want to approach
your application a bit differently than you had imagined.
This will ensure you have
the best opportunity to build a successful blockchain application.